'\" t
.pc
.TH AUTOKERN 1 "2022-03-17" "1.0" "autoKernelBuild"
.SH NAME
autoKern \- an automation script for the downloading, compilation and installation of a linux kernel.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" general usage
.B autokern
.RI [\| "options" \|]
.\" kernver options
.br
.B autokern
{
.B \-k
.I kernel_version
|
.B \-l
}
.RI [\| "options" \|]
.\" verbose and silent options
.br
.B autokern
.B \-v
.RI [\| "options" \|]
.\" wget option
.br
.B autokern
.B \-w
.RI [\| "options" \|]

.SH CONFIGURATION
.B autokern
can be configured by defining program variables in the
.IR $HOME/.config/autokern/config
file accordingly (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT
for a list of variables).
Additionally,
.B autokern
can be configured to use a user-provided kernel
.IR .config
file by writing it to
.IR $HOME/.config/autokern/kernconf
\.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autokern
is a program that automates the process of downloading, compiling and installing a linux kernel.
The program allows a user to pass a kernel version and the program will download the source-code from the
.UL kernel.org
website, extract the source-code, apply a user-supplied configuration, compile and install the kernel, minimizing unnessecary user interactions. The program also provides the ability to download the latest stable mainline kernel for installation. Functionality includes a silent mode, for an no-output installation, as well as a verbose mode, for debugging.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP \w'autokern\ 'u
.BI autokern \ \-h
Display the manual page for
.B autokern
\.
.TP
.BI autokern \ \-v
Runs
.B autokern
with verbose outputs enabled.
.TP
.BI autokern \ \-k \ 5.14.5
Sets the kernel version of
.B autokern
to 5.14.5
.TP
.BI autokern \ \-l
Sets the kernel version of
.B autokern
to the latest stable mainline version (same as entering nothing at kernel version prompt).
.TP
.BI autokern \ \-w
Runs
.B autokern
in wget mode, which uses wget for downloads rather than curl.
.TP
.BI autokern \ \-lw
Runs
.B autokern
in wget mode (
.BI -w
) as well as using the latest stable mainline version (
.BI -l
).

.SH DEFAULTS
By default:
.B autokern
.TP
will use the latest stable mainline kernel version unless specified with the
.B \-k
option or specified when prompted.
.TP
uses curl to download the kernel source-code unless the
.B \-w
option is specified, which uses wget for this functionality.
.TP
outputs normal outputs unless the
.B \-v
option is specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.TP
.BI \-w
	Run
.B autokern
with wget as the download program for downloading kernel source-code.
.TP
.BR \-v
	Run programs within
.B autokern
with verbose outputs.
.TP
.BR \-l
	Run
.B autokern
with the kernel version set to the latest stable mainline version (skips kernel version prompt).
	The program searches for the kernel version of the
.I Latest Release
button on
.UR https://www.kernel.org
.UE
\. Conflicts with
.B -k
\.
.TP
.BR \-h
	Runs the help/man page for
.B autokern
which you are reading right now. Uses man to interpret the nroff man file.

.SS Argumentative options
.TP
.BI \-k \ kernel_version
	Uses the kernel version argument provided as the version to download.
Conflicts with
.B -l
\.

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
The following programs are required for the script to function:
.TP
tar gcc make ld depmod perl bc openssl grub mkinitcpio
Additionally, other packages are required that may not nessecarily provide commands such as the
.B linux-headers
package.

On systems running the
.B pacman
package manager, the following command can be run to install all nessecary programs.

.TP
.B pacman -S base-devel xmlto kmod inetutils bc libelf cpio linux-headers

More information can be found at the following link:
.UR https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.15/process/changes.html
.UE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
All environment variables, if pre-set or defined in
.IR $HOME/.config/autokern/config
will be used over default values. (see
.BR FILES
for more information).

.TP
.B KERNDIR
Defines the directory path where the program performs its operations (downloading, extracting, compiling).
.TP
.B DLCOM
Determines the command used to download nessecary files (wget or curl).
.TP
.B COMPTHREADS
Determines the number of CPU threads used to compile the kernel, by default is set by ‘nproc’ which prints the total number of threads in a machine.
.TP
.B KERNVER
The version number of the kernel as specified by the user when prompted or from options.
.TP
.B AUTOKERNVERB
When declared the program runs code with verbose flags. The same as passing the
.B -v
option.
.TP
.B AUTOKERNCONF
Defines the directory location where the program's configuration file is stored, as well as the kernel .config file and backup.
.TP
.B KERNSUFFIX
Determines the suffix for kernel files to prevent overwriting of existing installed kernels matching the version of KERNVER.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/autokern/config
The program's configuration file which is written as shell script. Defined and can be modified by the
.RB $ AUTOKERNCONF
environment variable, (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT
for more information).
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/autokern/kernconf
The kernel .config file to be imported by the program by default, if non-existent, is replaced by running kernel config found at
.IR /proc/config.gz
using zcat.
Defined and can be modified by the
.RB $ AUTOKERNCONF
environment variable, (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT
for more information).

.TP
.I $HOME/.cache/autokern/
The directory used by default where the program performs its operations Defined and can be modified by the
.RB $ KERNDIR
environment variable, (see
.BR ENVIRONMENT
for more information).


.SH REPOSITORY
The program's source-code repository can be found at the following link.
.UR https://github.com/MrMairey/autoKernelBuild
.UE
